Constitution of the Skype group of YouthDebates.com

Article 1. Definitions 

1. Consensus - Wherein all members of the group agree to the proposed motion and/or all oppositions have been shown to be irrelevant
2. Compromise - Wherein all members of the group agree to act on certain aspects of each party's proposition so as to progress
3. Proposal - Wherein one or more member(s) of the group wish to create a rule, amend a rule or delete a role, ban a member for any amount of time or bring a moderator's position into question and bring it up before the group

Article 2. Rights.

1. All members have the right to make proposals and have their proposals considered
2. All members have the right to oppose proposal and to have their opposition heard 
3. All members have the right to know their rights
4. All members have the right to participte in the rule making process

Article 3. Rule decision process

Section 1. Proposing a motion 

 1. Any member may make a proposal to the group, this is a motion, motions should be proposed publicly
 2. All proposals of the previous week will be discussed and debated on the Sunday of that week. 
 3. If any member is unable to attend, they may state their opinion earlier in the week 
  A) If the member agrees with the motion then this will be noted and accounted for later 
  B) If the member opposes the motion, they may either 
   1. Select a consenting representative to argue their side for them and make any  ompromises neccesary, this person is known as the "Opposition Representative"
    2. Ask to extend this particular motions discussion time to a later date at which they can attend and make their opposition 
 4. Members may oppose a motion as a group, and the overarching group must be informed of this arrangement 
  A) Members within this sub group may argue in place of any other members
  B) If any members of this sub group are unable to attend the discussion time then all attending members of the group will be held as "Opposition Representatives" for this person. 
5. Proposals made during the discussion period will be discussed at the next discussion period to allow time for absentees to make clear their opinions

Section 2. Discussion and debate 

 1. All those opposing the motion will be asked to present their opposing argument in a pseudo random fashion
 2. After the opposing argument is made, a period of discussion is held until either side concedes their argument
 3. All those opposing an argument may retract their opposition at any time
 4. All debates shall be held in an orderly fashion, this entails 
  A) No insulting the opposition 
  B) No aggressive or passive agressive 
 5. If an opposition is shown to be rationally or empirically false or unjistified, then the opposition shall be blocked 
 6. If a motion is shown to be rationally or empirically false or unjustified, then the motion shall be blocked 
 7. Any party may propose a compromise at any time during the debate 
  A) This compromise is then to be held under the same scrutiny as the original motion 
  B) Anytime during the discussion, any party may propose to amend the compromise 
8. The proposing party may amend the motion at any point in the discussion, after this is done
9. After an opposition is blocked, or a compromise is made, the discussion will move to the next opposition 

Article 4. Enforcement of the rules 

1. The rules shall be enforced by a group of moderators led by Lawand 
2. All rules shall be noted by the team of moderators and made publicly available, along with this constitution 
3. The moderators must enforce these rules, if they do not after being reminded of them, a motion may be proposed to remove their moderator status. 
 A) During the period after the proposal to remove the moderator's moderator status, the moderator will have their powers removed as a probation until the motion is blocked
 B) If the motion is passed then they will not be given back their moderator powers
4. If a moderator abuses their powers, a motion may be passed to remove their moderator status, in this case 3A and 3B come into effect 
5. In the case of 3 and 4, the other moderators should be notified immediately with evidence of the abuse or failure to enforce rules
 
 

